Can you tell me a bit more about Habonim then? How it was organised and what you did?
Well, Habonim was largely, it was Zionist.
We basically were all for the State of Israel, the kibbutz movement,
because it was left-wing without being Marxist.
There were different forms of Jewish movements.
There was an extreme left-wing Marxist group, Hashomer HaTzaiyya,
Watchmen of the Night. They were extreme left-wing.
Habonim, the word bon-er in Hebrew is builder.
The prefix ha is the definite article, and im at the end of a word is the plural.
So, Habonim is the builders.
What are they building? They're building Eretz Israel, a land which would be for all Jews.
And interestingly, Zionism was the result, as Simon Schama said only recently,
the result of antisemitism. Not the cause of it.
Many people today think that because of Israel and Zionism, people are antisemitic.
Not true. Antisemitism, in my view, is a bit like fox hunting.
It's fun. Kill a Jew. It's great fun.
Particularly at Easter time, you know, when the Passover and Easter relate.
So, Zionism as such was the key element of Habonim,
but there was a great emphasis upon Israeli folk tunes and dancing, Israeli dancing,
and play-acting and scouting, because we did a lot of camping and trekking and that sort of thing.
It was influential in a big time.